thank you so much for being here as with
the other speakers i so wish we could be
together in person
in trying to find the silver lining in
all of this though
i love seeing the innovation and how we
run online events and finding ways for
folks to still connect
share learnings and ideas and come
together even if from a distance to
solve problems
i also love that so many more people can
participate in these events
once we're no longer limited by physical
proximity
so once again thank you all for joining
me to talk about what i've learned in
this most
interesting year as i've transitioned
from being a founder of a 75 person
startup
to being the chief operating officer of
github
among many other things what's been
interesting
is seeing how many of the leadership
principles i embraced at bitnami have
carried through to my work at github
and how they've evolved to support our
scale and that's what i'm going to
discuss with you today
first to give you a little bit of
context on where i'm coming from
here's a bit of background i was the
co-founder and ceo of a company called
bitnami which we took through y
combinator
and mostly bootstrapped to 75 employees
we sold the company to vmware just over
a year ago where the business and team
are thriving
as you can see from this map the team
was globally distributed
and that's still the case today when
bitnami was acquired i was incredibly
honored to be able to take on the role
of coo at github
a company i've long admired in a space
i've been deeply passionate about for
over a decade
to help lead us on our continuing
journey to provide the best
possible home for all developers it was
and still is my dream job and i count my
lucky stars to get to work with such
amazing people
on such an inspiring mission every day
it's also been quite a whirlwind
as on top of everything that we've had
happening in the world in 2020
we've also doubled in size since i
joined to over 2300 employees
spread all over the world you can see
the difference in scale as we add the
purple dots to this map
we've also significantly expanded our
platform and business so lots of change
it was an interesting adjustments from
the bitnami days
and we'll talk about more about that as
we dig in
before i move on i'll quickly note that
i'm also on the board of directors of
the linux foundation
and an investor with x factor ventures a
seed fund that invests in the next
generation of companies pursuing billion
dollar opportunities founded by women
the learnings i covered today were not
only gained through my experiences with
bitnami and github but also
through these organizations so
as you can imagine a lot of folks have
asked what is it like going from
building and overseeing bitnami to being
the ceo of github
people expect that different skill sets
are required to found and build a
startup versus
running a larger company and while
that's true in some aspects
i found that a lot of what i learned in
smaller organizations has served me
extremely well
as we've gone through such incredible
growth at github
today i'm going to share six key
principles that i believe are essential
at
any stage so let's dive in
first build a support staff early most
founders are frugal and we want to lead
by example
every dollar counts and we typically
want to make all of our investments in
product development and spend as little
as possible
on everything else that was certainly
the case for me and i've seen this with
so many other founders i've worked with
over the years
but thinking that we should do
everything ourselves can harm our
ability to execute
i'm sure you're all aware of the often
cited it takes 23 minutes to refocus
after being distracted
while the data point and associated
study has a lot of nuance when applied
to the real world we can still use this
as a baseline for time costs
there's a common misconception that 23
minutes is the time it takes just to
refocus but it's actually inclusive of
completing the interrupt task and
refocusing
this means that every task you're doing
that's not actively building your
business is distracting you from the
work that
truly adds to reaching your goals over
time you're getting further and further
away from the work that matters
many founders have guilt around
delegating the tasks that they can do
themselves to others or getting
themselves support
such as be an office manager or
executive assistant in the early days
it can feel indulgent and self-important
but time is our most precious commodity
and we need to use it wisely
this is amplified in a larger
organization the single most
important thing you can do is build and
empower a great team to take more off
your plate so you can continue to
refocus on higher value activities
like around your strategy and vision so
the rest of the business keeps going
while you focus on those
so as a founder how do you do that i
encourage you to start by
hiring an office manager or ea virtually
every founder i know spends way too much
time on
operational items such as scheduling
finding and maintaining office space
setting up payroll and other things that
are necessary but not what really adds
value to the business
the thought of it might seem
self-indulgent i know especially when
you have so little to spend
but while developing my company and
career i've learned to be a lot more
productive i can be a lot more
productive by building out a support
staff
to the benefit of our employees and
investors and also
my family and there are a lot of great
virtual assistant services available now
to help you balance cost with getting
help
my husband runs a consulting practice
and has a virtual ea through a service
called time etc that's worked
extremely well for him and his assistant
as the scope and intensity of my role
has grown over time i've continued to
build out my support network both at
work and in my personal life
i think it's important that we speak
openly about the help that some of us
have
rather than pretending that we do it all
as it helps set healthier examples for
others and we'll talk more about health
and well-being later
for each of these lessons i've collected
a set of actionable taken ways to
highlight the key points we've covered
in this case hiring an ea or office
manager is a great place to start
but your support staff is more than that
and you should
continue building out one both at work
and in your personal lives
as your responsibilities grow also as
you grow
closely evaluate how you spend your time
what activities are taking up the bulk
of your time that you could find someone
else to support
is it administrative work personal
errands or ordering supplies
considering how growing your support
staff can help you prioritize the tasks
where you can add the most value
and speak openly about the support
you're getting you're successful because
of your support staff and it's valuable
to let others around you see that
let's support each other in setting
realistic expectations by being honest
that we don't necessarily do it all
ourselves building a supporting team
allowed me to invest myself in building
bitnami and now in leading github
effectively
and these three takeaways lead to my
next point
which is that focus leads to deep
thinking
now that you've established your support
staff how do you invest the time you
freed up to focus on building your
business
whether you're in an early stage startup
or a much larger
company there will always be an
incredible number of competing demands
for your time and attention
at a startup it might be a few things
like this
as the company grows in size and
complexity this increases
to be an effective executive you need to
build and empower
a team of folks that are better than you
in most of these areas and that
complement your own areas of expertise
we'll talk more about that later the key
here is that you need to continually
find entire chunks of work to pass off
so that you can free up your own time
and focus for whatever you can do to add
the most
value to your business this is typically
long-term strategy work
recruiting the best possible team you
can ensuring that your teams are doing
all the right work to achieve your short
and long term goals
and as with many other things this can
be easier said than done
i'm going to take a moment to share an
experience i had a couple of years ago i
was on a panel where a participant was
asked to share the best piece of advice
she had ever received and she said
never say no to anything honestly it's
terrible advice
saying no to most of what comes your way
is key to maintaining control over
your time and focus i literally say no
constantly
far more than i say yes probably at
least 90 percent of the time and it's
probably still not enough
you really need to get into the habit of
asking what the highest leverage use of
your
time is and say no to virtually
everything else
mental and physical health counts here
too and we'll talk more about that later
but suffice it to say that you can't do
your best work if you're not taking care
of yourself mentally and physically
i'll also note that it's key that you
make time for yourself to think deeply
about the most important aspects of your
business
i was in a chat with some founders
recently and someone mentioned feeling
guilty when they weren't producing
something
this is super common and i'd say it's in
the dna of founders and lots of others
as well
in other words folks feel guilty for
reading up on things like leadership or
industry news or stepping away to think
through a problem
you need to get over this it's tough to
really spend time on the right
strategy or identify existential threats
to your business if you're scheduled
constantly or if you feel like you can't
find
time for your mind to breathe this is
just part of focus
you need to make time for the hard
problems and the key areas where you can
add the most value to the business such
as making key higher
key hiring decisions putting the right
organizational structures in place and
building a growth environment for your
team
so to summarize the key takeaways on
this topic
say no more often practice this and
practice it again
when you learn to say no it will become
clear which things you really need to
say yes to
as your company grows and trust your
team to take on things you can't
as you start to focus on where you can
have the most impact
let your team take on the other things
that you've said no to
that conference isn't that great use of
a time your time could be great exposure
for somebody else
invite someone to go in your place the
pitch tech that needs to be updated
maybe someone else can do that work and
it's a great opportunity for them to
learn and grow as well
and also schedule time for focused work
this goes back to having a support staff
who can help protect your time and
remove the day-to-day distractions
that keep you from focusing schedule
focused time into your day and don't let
anything else absorb that time
and last take time out of your element
to allow for deeper thinking
it's really really hard to take time off
when you're building and growing a
company
and i'll tell you that if you believe
you'll have time someday when the
company is larger and more established
and has more employees
you're wrong it's never the case it's
still hard to take time off and tune out
but i've learned especially over the
past six months
as we've been encouraging github
employees to take the time off they need
for their health and well-being
that it's equally important for me as a
leader to do the same
i've actually taken several vacations
during covid we can't really go anywhere
of course but just interrupting my
routine and investing in rest and
redirection
has given me the space and freedom to
look at work from a different
perspective
some great ideas have occurred to me
during these periods of rest simply
because i've disrupted my daily routine
and i'm in a different headspace it's
hard to give yourself that time off when
you're trying to build a company but
trust me it's so worth it
this leads me to lesson number two push
decision making down
just like you need to rely on your team
to take work on that you don't have time
for it you also have to learn to rely on
them to make decisions
in an early stage startup everyone is so
close to the decision making that
this is less important as the founder of
a growth company you'll likely be the
person with the most
context on the business and as a result
you'll tend to be
involved in almost all decisions but
when you're larger you can no longer
know everything that's being shipped
so you need to shift from knowing
everything to enabling others to make
decisions
i'll admit that this has been an
interesting adjustment for me
in the bitnami days i knew virtually
everything that was happening across the
business at github we have so much going
on
at such high velocity that no one person
can really stay on top of it
given that the most senior executives
aren't always in the best place to
recommend the best course of action on
certain topics for the business
so what do you do teach yourself to
delegate not only work but decision
making
the people closest to the problem
typically have the best information
and perspective your 40 000 foot view is
important to connect all the dots across
the company
in fact having this context across the
various parts of your business is one of
the most important roles of the ceo and
coo
the trick is to effectively push that
context down so others can make informed
intelligent decisions that are right for
your business
you need to start this early if you want
to avoid becoming a bottleneck when you
grow which will severely limit your
company's ability to execute
and you need to do it in a consistent
manner at the outset of covid19
things were evolving very quickly on a
global scale and like most companies we
had to make a series of critical
decisions for our business and our
employees
we have offices and co-working spaces
worldwide that had to close
eight active real estate projects to put
on hold and redesign
over 2000 employees working remotely
vendors who are important to our culture
but could no longer come to our offices
customers who wanted assurance would
continue to support them through the
recession
and over 50 million developers
collaborating on our platform
who are dealing with crises of their own
if i had made every single one of the
decisions on how to respond across every
aspect of our business
it would have taken far too long to
execute and our customers and employees
would have been left wondering
where we were and what we were doing we
could have been behind in
the curve and scrambling to catch up
instead our leadership team made one
important decision first
to activate our enterprise crisis
management team for the first time
this is a group of senior leaders across
each function that would
make recommendations and often decisions
on how to best respond across our
business
this freed me up to focus on the
strategic work that keeps our company
operating
while a dedicated group of folks made
sure we acted quickly and decisively on
behalf of our community and our teams
this team is still operating today and
they report back to the senior
leadership team with updates and
recommendations on key items where
executive approval is necessary
and make key decisions on tactical items
whenever possible
so let's review a few of the key
takeaways from this section
first communicate your vision and
expectations once your team has contacts
from your 40
000 foot view they'll be able to act and
make the best decisions for the business
empower your team to make decisions
build a culture of trust
and explicitly let members in your team
know decisions you expect them to make
on behalf of the company and create
clear expectations
and which ones should be escalated to
senior leadership for approval
second facilitate cross-functional
collaboration
avoid dysfunctional silos where all
decisions that span two or more
functions get elevated to you
for for making these decisions and
instead
ensure folks have the right information
to make these decisions and continue on
other work
and focus on thoughtful communication to
make sure that everybody's on the same
page
and that brings me to our next topic the
way you communicate changes a lot as you
scale
at the earlier stages relationships are
close enough that this is easy
but this changes as your company grows
people have different perspectives from
their different experiences and areas of
the business
they have different priorities and
different moments in time they digest
and understand information in
dramatically different ways
someone once told me if you want folks
to remember something you have to tell
them five
times in five different ways and i think
that's a great way to think about it
in a larger company communication may
not be as straightforward but the
underlying principles of how to
communicate remains the same
as a leader you have to be thoughtful
about what and when you communicate and
the implication of those decisions
everyone likes to talk about
transparency and transparency is
important
but one of the things that folks talk
about less is the timing of that
transparency and how
communications are rolled out one thing
i've definitely learned
is that what it means to be transparent
changes as you scale
as you grow you need to be more
thoughtful about how information
cascades throughout your org
this helps equip your leadership change
to respond appropriately themselves
and be prepared to answer any key
questions that come up
if managers have questions or concerns
it gives you time to make sure they're
well informed and bought into whatever
you're rolling out
i think effective transparency has four
key characteristics
first your communication should be
timely you might have the right message
but if your timing is off and you share
important information with your team too
late you can come across as reactive
on the flip side if you start talking
about early exploratory conversations
you had about an acquisition too early
you can
cause a huge amount of disruption
uncertainty and speculation in your org
that distracts the team from keeping the
business moving forward
second your communication should be
strategic always focus on the why
explain why you're making this change
how it supports your strategy and how it
will help you
and your team achieve your mission build
out a communications plan to help
build buy-in over time rather than doing
one-off communications
every time where the points you're
trying to make often get lost in the
shuffle
for example at github we're making some
changes to our it systems
at the start of this project we shared
with the company why we're making these
changes and set expectations that there
are things coming we then have a series
of updates coming out across multiple
channels to help people
keep people posted in advance of the
changes being rolled out
and with clear instructions on where to
go with questions
and this brings me to the third point
your communication should be shareable
what i mean by this is that the
messaging should be clear and easy to
follow without room for
misinterpretation or guesswork
it should also be as concise as possible
as your team grows consider
communicating using different channels
remember the rule five i mentioned
earlier and leverage your management
structure to cascade information
for us at github this means making use
of our internal content sharing platform
as well as slack and highlighting
important messages and weekly news
updates
as well as covering them in our all
hands
we also make sure that people know where
to go with questions or for help
in the case of our i.t changes we're
using our discussions feature so others
can see q
a coming in which may answer questions
for other folks in the company
fourth and finally your communication
should be actionable
if you're expecting your team to react
in a certain way or false
specific set of actions make sure that
it's abundantly clear
if there's a way for them to contribute
make sure that's clear as well
let your team know how the information
you share with them will impact them
what asks you have of them and how they
can contribute
this could be keeping an eye out for
further information setting aside a time
time aside in their calendars for
training or providing feedback on an
important topic
i'll share one example of where this
concept of cascading
timely and strategic communications
became especially important
and it was when the bitnami was being
acquired by vmware
when you're a founder going through an
acquisition you're often thrilled and
can't wait to share the news with
everyone your team trusts you and you've
always been honest and forthcoming with
information
so it feels wrong to hold something like
this back but you need to step back
and think about what's truly best for
the business and the team
there's a lot that can derail an
acquisition and a ton of uncertainty at
first
how will folks jobs evolve for example
so it's best to keep the discussion
within the smallest group of folks
possible
so you don't disrupt the business and
create unnecessary stress and
uncertainty for your team while you're
working through the details
responsible transparency is sharing the
information at the right time with the
right strategy a clear shareable message
and a thoughtful action plan
and now that i've been on both sides
i've learned that this is as important
when you're acquiring company
as when you're being acquired since i
joined github a year ago
the company has nearly doubled in size
as we scale there are changes we need to
make to support our larger team and
larger user base
and when we make those changes whether
it's to our benefits package
our international expansion strategy our
org structure
we follow these same principles be
transparent about the changes in a way
that's timely strategic
shareable and actionable this usually
means cascading information
outward to our extended leadership team
and our people managers
and then downward throughout the
organization relying on those folks to
throw
to share that information with their
teams by having some clear principles
for what
how and when to communicate and
acknowledging that as you grow
you rely on others to communicate you
can create a culture of thoughtful and
diligent communication that will help
minimize destruction
disruption and stress in the business
and keep folks focused on the right
things while plans are still being
ironed out
here are key takeaways from this section
have principles for what how and when to
communicate
remember that transparency is only
helpful if it's done
responsibly adapt how you communicate as
you scale
you'll likely need to share the same
message multiple times
across multiple channels as your company
gets larger and more distributed
i spend a significant amount of my time
on internal communications as it's such
an important
part of change management as we scale
the business
communicate in partnership with your
managers provide leaders throughout your
company with the information they need
to communicate to their teams on behalf
of the business
talking about leaders another important
lesson learned and this was really
impressed upon me when we went through y
combinator with bitnami
is to know what great looks like when
you need to scale
you need to hire the right people and in
order to do that you need to know what
great looks like
what do i mean by that what i mean as as
a founder
you may not have ever worked with or
hired a vp of sales or a coo
or a head of i.t or a vp of marketing
if you've never hired or worked directly
with someone in one of these roles
it can be really tricky tricky to figure
out what you should look like
for in a new hire for one of those roles
these are incredibly high stakes hires
too
the right person can really make your
business and the wrong person might
break it
so how do you go about finding the right
folks if you don't really know what
you're looking for
i got this advice from a woman named
giacinto at y combinator and it's
absolutely stuck with me
go and meet as many exceptional folks
for whatever role you're trying to fill
as possible
find the folks that are really at the
top of their game even if there's no way
you'll be able to hire them and ask them
about their roles
what it makes it takes for someone to be
successful in that role what to look for
and even show them the job description
and get their feedback on it
i've learned a lot about how i'm even
thinking about the responsibilities for
a particular role in going through this
process
i lean into my network a ton for these
introductions
i ask people who they think is the best
person at x role
and i asked for an introduction and then
i'm really transparent about that person
about what i'm hoping to get out of the
conversation over the course of a series
of these discussions i start to develop
an archetype
of what i'm looking for in a role what
skills are important
what type of person will be successful
at the current stage of my business
for example someone coming out of a very
large company not might not be right for
leading sales at a very small one
where you need to develop a whole new
playbook or build a funnel from xero
you need different types of skills at
different times in your company's growth
so you need to really hone in on what
your company needs from the hire you're
making over the next two years or
so and make sure you're seeking out
candidates that fit that right profile
this goes for leaders as well as any
other key hires whether engineers or hr
leaders to help you scale
so as a reminder be proactive and find
out what great looks like
as the first step in your hiring process
before you start interviewing conte
candidates sometimes these early
conversations can even result in one of
those folks joining your company
if the opportunity is especially
interesting to them
to meet those folks leverage your
network to learn from great leaders
find out what makes them great so you
know what to look for when you're hiring
build archetypes specific for your
company the person that you need for
your company
for a certain role may not be the same
person that github needs for a similar
role or that a public company needs
okay so now we've talked about hiring
great folks let's move on to my sixth
and final point
and that's how you build an environment
where these people can grow and flourish
i have to admit this talk was originally
only five lessons when i scheduled when
i was scheduled to give it back in march
but when i went back to refresh it for
today i had to add a six point
because while this is something that's
always been important to me and
important in leadership
the last six months have made it very
clear that it's something that needs to
be talked about more
once you've hired great people you need
to prioritize supporting their greatness
by creating an
environment where they see clearly how
their work contributes
to the company's success where everyone
feels like they belong
and where people can continue to grow
and develop their skills
people who don't feel supported or
valued or burned out who don't feel a
sense of belonging or are working in
conditions that are not
good for their mental or physical health
cannot do the best work for your company
and they're more likely to leave worse
than that they may stay
and impact the morale and performance of
the rest of the team
at many companies covet highlighted
problems that already existed
we're living through a period of
extremely high levels of stress and
trauma and lower levels of productivity
and mental health
with 88 percent of employees
experiencing
experiencing moderate to extreme stress
since the pandemic started
according to gartner first and foremost
taking care of your team is the right
thing to do
but in addition to that it's also in the
best business interest of your company
to ensure that teams feel valued
supported and cared for
even when we're not in a pandemic you
don't have to just take my word for it
according to a study by mckenzie
supporting the physical and mental
health of employees can result in a 45
increase in engagement and a 21
improvement in work effectiveness
so how do we create the best conditions
for growth for our employees
and in turn for our companies once
you've made all these great hiring
decisions no matter what stage
you need to create an environment where
people can thrive
at github we talk about building an
environment where people can do the best
work of their lives there's so much to
this but i'll highlight a few key areas
first purpose everyone wants to feel
like their work matters
people need to be able to trace a line
from the work they're doing to the
company's success
regardless of company's size this means
it's critically important to make sure
that everybody
understands the company's mission and
goals and that the company level goals
are supported by those in each function
at github we use the okr model for this
and we have company functional and team
level okrs that are all designed to fit
together this also helps leaders at all
companies draw a line from the work from
each person is doing
to the company's progress it's
incredibly important that you build
discipline around this
and that folks are regularly looking at
the okrs
and seeing and measuring their progress
towards them
and then connecting that back to the
work that the company is doing
this also helps set clear expectations
with employees
around what they're expected to achieve
and makes it easier to give clear and
actionable feedback when folks aren't
hitting the mark
a clear set of measurable goals that
help everyone understand how their work
will move the business forward
helps create the right environment for
professional growth and also ensures
everyone is doing the most important
work for the business at any particular
point in time
the second piece is belonging now more
than ever it's critical that people feel
a sense of belonging
both on their teams and at your company
ensuring folks feel connected to the
company's mission as a piece of this
but if it of course goes well beyond
that building a sense of belonging
requires building a
truly inclusive culture where all people
are welcome supported and treated
equally at github we seek to ensure that
a range of diverse
voices and viewpoints are heard
represented and incorporated into our
work
we invest in supporting our communities
of belonging or
infinity and ergs as well as create and
nurture a range of ways
employees can connect with one another
this might be through our extremely
active cooking and personal finance
channels and oh my gosh
there are some people at github who can
cook to providing
opportunities for people to come
together remotely to enjoy musical
performances
participate in trivia games or even
play on a minecraft server together the
most successful products are built by
companies that create environments where
diverse perspectives personalities and
interests can flourish and where
everyone feels like they belong
building this foundation of belonging
creates an environment where folks are
set up for success
both for themselves and for your
business the third
area i'll highlight is wellness both
physical and mental
wellness has deteriorated across the
world and particularly in the us
in 2020 in light of covid and so many
other tragic events
according to a recent qualtrics survey
over 44 percent of employees working
from home have reported stress during
the pandemic
while we can't solve all these uh
problems for employees stepping up in
this area is not only
the right thing to do but it's good for
business as well as i mentioned
previously so what are some of the
things we can do to support
physical and mental wellness of course
there are a number of benefits you can
provide from gym stipends to thorough
insurance coverage for mental and
physical health
but beyond these offering flexible work
arrangements such as supporting remote
work
or allowing people to work part-time or
reduce
schedules building a culture around
asynchronous work
phone funding home office setups
scheduling no meeting days there are a
lot of things you can do to bring
flexibility to folks
this is especially helpful these days as
so many people are juggling
child or other care responsibilities on
top of work
and it helps you recruit exceptional
folks that might not otherwise be able
to take on jobs
where they don't have enough flexibility
and this can lead to a huge competitive
advantage in building an amazing team
each of these combined with great
leadership coaching
stretch opportunities and everything
else that full books have been built
about
are critical to building an environment
where
employees can really grow and thrive i
know i've covered a lot of ground above
but that's because this is such an
incredibly important topic
here are the key takeaways build and
communicate
a clear vision and mission early and
often
use okrs or other planning processes to
help people see how their work supports
the company's success
cultivate a sense of belonging in every
employee by building an inclusive
environment and providing ample
opportunities for people to connect with
others whether in person or virtually
this builds connective tissue in your
company and sets you up to get a diverse
range of perspectives and input as you
shape your business and your strategy
and four invest in mental and physical
health and wellness
this goes beyond benefits to include
supporting work arrangements that offer
flexibility and allow people to balance
their work and personal lives
okay so that wraps up my sixth and final
point for this particular talk though
there's clearly so much more to cover
as i mentioned this was mostly written
six months ago but in revisiting it to
make updates for today
i realized that these simple leadership
lessons have been extremely helpful in
adapting to my new role as ceo of github
and helping to lead the company through
the most tumultuous year most of us have
ever
experienced there are obviously a lot of
top lessons lists out there
and there's a lot to be learned from
them i tried to pick a few of many that
have been particularly helpful to me and
that i think apply
in earlier stage startups as well as
much larger
very high growth companies like github
while much
or or all of it might have been obvious
i've always found it helpful to hear
what stands out to others
as it helps reinforce shape or evolve my
own thinking i hope this has been the
case for you
and i'll leave you with this an amazing
team in an environment that helps build
out the
best in folks where they have the right
information at the right time and are
empowered to make decisions when they're
closest to the work
frees you up to focus your own time on
the greatest opportunities for your
business
while this is certainly easier said than
done it's what separates the good from
the great and sets you up to move
successfully onwards
and upwards okay so thanks to all of you
who has submitted questions
i'm excited that we get to do this
following the talk which is not always
typical
so i'm going to take a few of them now
the first one
is when do you know when to sell your
startup
i will say uh this is an incredibly i
think personal question
and there's really so much that goes
into this
in the case of bitnami we were at a
point where
we were going to launch an enterprise
product and we had been bootstrapping
for a long time and now we're going to
need to
raise funding or um or basically sell
the company
and we went out uh to do the funding
around in fact
and we're approached by a number of our
partners who are interested in having
uh bitnami join their companies to help
accelerate the business
so for us it really became a question of
how can we really take everything we
built
and make it as successful as possible
and so for us vmware was the clear right
home and the next step for supporting
vietnamese growth
but there are a lot of reasons folks
sell companies it may be to accelerate
the business in the case of bitnami
other times maybe you just don't want to
take that next step
maybe you need new resources into the
company or new expertise
a lot of times there's opportunities to
take care of existing
sales channels that a company that's
much bigger might have in place so
you know it's a tough question and it
really depends i mean hopefully you have
a freedom of choice some companies are
running out of money i think and forced
to sell
but oftentimes it's really about like
what's best for your vision and
achieving that and and where can you do
that
uh work the best so thanks for the
question i think i could probably do
a whole nother talk on that topic and
many have
but hopefully that was helpful it tends
to be a really personal
decision and also really tied to you
know where your business is at that
point in time
okay next question is it possible to be
too capital efficient as a founder
i think so and i think that's a little
bit about what i touched on you know
when i reflect on bitnami
we tried to do way too much too early in
the early days
i was literally doing everything you
hear this a lot like you know
founders take out the trash i definitely
did that i did everything i even cooked
for the team a bunch i love to cook so
that was convenient but
in the very early days i would cook for
us we didn't want to spend money we
didn't want to waste time going out so
um yeah i think that honestly it slowed
us down a lot
and so i think you always need to be
very strategic when you think about
how you spend your time and and also how
you invest the capital
that you have available to you to make
sure that you're moving the business
forward as quickly as possible
so again i think great question and one
that we could talk about for a long time
but
yes invest in freeing up your time
to do the work that gives you the
highest leverage for the business and
hopefully some of my talking points from
earlier were helpful about that
too or helpful with that too excuse me
okay next question when is a b to b
or b to d company ready for a co and how
do you decide who owns what great
question
and you know it really depends this yo
the role of a co is an interesting one
because it morphs
in different companies and there's a
great uh harvard business review article
that i encourage you to read and it's
called something like
the misunderstood role of the coo and it
talks about kind of
these different archetypes of cos some
are often
brought in to complement like a very
product focused
um very deeply technical ceo in tech you
know that was the case for me and
danielle my co-founder
um you know we started the company
together but i'm not an engineer
and uh he is and he really had the
product
and the strategic vision for the company
and i was the person that could come in
and kind of be a true partner to him
to help uh get everything else in the
business taken for
or moving forward and that's really um
what i did so i think you know when
you're thinking about building out your
executive team
you really need to look at the unique
skills of the folks that you already
have on board and where you and those
folks can add the most value and then
think about what gaps you need to fill
it might be you know ahead of marketing
if you don't have a great knack for
marketing it might be
a head of sales if you don't have
experience there
um in the case of a co you know in my
case it's often kind of a divide and
conquer
approach right i can take a lot of work
off of a ceo's plate
so that they can focus on things like
product strategy
you know existential threats to the
business really moving things forward
and i can make sure that i'm maturing
the way uh
that we operate and that you know the
different needs of the business are
being met
as well as that you know our okrs are
really supportive of our strategic
vision and where we want to take the
company so we have everyone
working on the right things um another
these are all great questions so
so thank you so much all right next one
what are the signs a vp you've hired who
is great on paper
or even somewhere else maybe they mean
referrals or something
isn't going to make it and how can you
improve the odds that your leadership
team is successful
so great question and i'll be honest
with you there are a lot of folks on
paper that look great that might not be
a great fit for your business and this
is kind of what i was touching on
before too and you know understanding
what great
really looks like right so
the first thing i'll say and this is
obvious but it's still true
is trust your gut you usually know
pretty early as something's not going to
work out and i think if you ask
most experienced business leaders
they'll tell you
that they always take too long to part
ways with somebody
i even heard another founder saying that
on a call just the other day like those
are usually the biggest regrets that
folks have so
i think when you're not able to really
align on
vision when you can align on
expectations
those are certainly usually red flags
others might be if you see that folks
aren't really truly
deeply engaged in the work another red
flag
i think you really need to to look at
your gut and set
clear expectations and meet regularly to
see how
an executive or the business is um is
progressing towards those expectations
but the reality is you'll probably know
if it's not working out
and then you should act very very
quickly you really don't have time
to give a lot of time to executives to
kind of
get up to speed or level up
unfortunately that's just
not what you need an executive leader as
you're um
as you're scaling a company and it's
just time you can't you can't afford to
take
um so i mean in terms of the second part
of that question like how can you
improve the odds that your leadership
team is successful
i think one of them is you know like i
said previously
really understand what great great looks
like and take a long time in your hiring
processes
it's much better to be slow to hire um
than to hire fast
right and then honestly as crass as it
may be you have to be fast to fire if
things aren't working
you need to part ways very quickly i
think those are the best things you can
do
to make your leadership team successful
other than you know i think the very
basic blocking and tackling which is
again making sure you're all really
aligned on your vision and that you
communicate and have clear lines of
who owns what to the the question that
was asked earlier right
making sure that nothing is falling
through the cracks um
again another great question and one i
could probably spin into a whole talk
um i think we have time for one more
question so i'll go ahead and take that
and then we'll wrap up
and that's how much is the right amount
to obsess about competition
that's a tough one i don't know if i can
really measure that in
in percentages i mean obviously you
shouldn't
do your work in a vacuum and ignore
everything that's going on
but i think if you if you have to err on
one side
err on focusing on your business
especially when you're a startup usually
there's enough market to go around right
and you really need to focus on building
the right team
building the right mission and vision
creating the right environment for
growth and
really just focusing on execution beyond
that
you know i think it's easy to get kind
of tied up and too worried about
what your competitors are doing and
obsessing about them and most of the
times it will just hold you back
but you know that doesn't mean you don't
pay attention at all
and try and you know kind of play out
the chess board and where folks
might end up in a few years and what
decisions that you might want to make
for your business
as a result of that so
i hope that was helpful um really fun to
take these great questions
just want to thank you all for coming
and being here i hope we get a chance to
meet in person
next year and until then best of luck
with your business whatever stage you're
in
take care everyone